According to a recent article published by LinkedIn Pulse, "63 percent of workers aged 34 and below..complaint they are not being properly trained for commanding positions at work." It is no secret, that Millennials are more prompt to change jobs and find employers that take talent development more seriously. Employers are seeing a correlation between employees' turnover rate and professional development. 
 
Is Performance Management Truly Effective with Millennials?
 
Since 2015, millennials have surpassed Generation X as the largest workforce in America, accounting for approximately a third of all employees. An alarming 70% of millennials believe that their employer's performance review process should be revamped.
 
The annual or bi-annual feedback process is perceived as subjective, infrequent, and filled with elements of resentment from managers or employees. Many Millennials feel that their managers are not adequately trained to conduct a review, resulting in misunderstandings. In fact the process triggers opposite results: employees start looking for a job, complaint to coworkers and/or feel down/angry after the review has taken place.
 
The notion of more frequent reviews or so -called "check-in"s on a bi-monthly basis, are now encouraged as a form to keep communication open and ongoing. Frequent conversations lead to better real-time understanding of expectations and concerns. It is critical though, that the process does not become a simple bi-monthly outlook calendar event, filled with casual conversation, or a simple to-do list that managers give to their employees to ensure they stay on track.
 
How can Technology be Combined with  Performance Management?
 
Utilizing technology as a component of your company's performance review process can help to improve productivity and performance outcomes.  This approach works well for a generation that appreciates and know how to take advantage of technology.  Although a review does not have to be face-to-face, personalized interactions and ongoing feedback

 
are still a priority.  Utilizing creative approaches allows managers to focus on other tasks, while getting updated reports that allow them to assess gaps and areas of improvement. Technology will not solve all performance review issues but it will certainly help keep a more transparent process, something that Millennials will truly appreciate.
 
Additionally, aligning the performance review process with career progression is also key in retaining your Millennial valued workforce. It is estimated that 52% of this population believes that career advancement is a top priority, coming ahead of competitive salaries (44%). According to recent surveys, 68% of graduates seek for good opportunities for growth and development ahead of other priorities.  
 
The 3 major steps in improving performance management for the Millennial generation can be summarized as follows:
 
1.  Increase transparency of the performance management process by:  assessing the reviews, tracking results, and providing clear benchmarking tools.  Also, transparency can be created by showing employees how their career, performance and salary co-relate with each other and the values and goals of the organization. A transparent process will increase the level of trust, and the overall appreciation for the organization.
 
2.  Develop coaches and mentors: when employees understand what they need to focus, but don't get constant coaching and guidance, they tend to loose motivation or drift away from their goals. Ensuring that employees have access to development tools, knowledge-sharing with colleagues, and a mentoring culture helps to create sustainable outcomes.
 
3.  Empower: once you have given the right tools and feedback, mentored and shared knowledge, you will notice your employees are ready to be self-sufficient and feel empowered to do their job without waiting for someone to tell them how to do it.
 
To implement these strategies, your company may choose to partner with an independent 3rd party firm to assess your current processes, develop strategies, and implement solutions.
